Thank you and good morning.
It's good to see that there are so many
people coming to this session because
automated testing has been one of my most
considered ideas to promote for Mac OS X.
So of course, you know, why are we here?
Because there's a great
need for testing automation.
Our applications have
become more complex.
Our needs for debugging,
we want to reduce our
engineering support requirements.
And what we want to show
you today is two things.
One, a solution from Apple that's
AppleScript-based functional
testing based upon our
Section 508 accessibility APIs.
And two, a solution that's being provided
for us from the Redstone
software folks called Eggplant.
Which does user-centric
testing from a scripted base.
And without further ado,
let me introduce John Comiskey from
the Senior Software Engineer from
the AppleScript group.
Thank you, Godfrey.
Thank you all for coming.
Good morning.
My name is John Comiskey.
I'm an engineer in the AppleScript group.
And I want to talk to you
today about GUI scripting.
First, a little bit about where
GUI scripting came from.
Section 508 is a federal law
that mandates accessibility
features for hardware and software
purchased by the federal government.
And if you're interested
in that kind of thing,
you can look at the U.S.
government's site about the law itself.
Apple responded to this,
being good citizens,
by creating an accessibility API.
It's in Jaguar right now.
You can look at the header files,
which is how I learned about it.
You can also go to the documentation
on the developer website
and learn about it that way.
If you search for accessibility,
you'll get some hits on documentation
for Carbon and for Cocoa and for how it
should appear to your users if you're
working in the accessibility space,
if you're building hardware or
software to make the computer more
usable by people with disabilities.
When we in AppleScript saw this,
we realized that this doesn't
just have to be an API.
It could be available
through scripting as well.
So we created GUI scripting.
It's a suite inside the
system events program.
If you target your
events to system events,
they'll be handled there.
And if you want to
look at the dictionary,
you can open up the dictionary for system
events and look in the processes suite.
Because GUI scripting has been
implemented as an extension
to the processes suite.
And there's some interesting
examples on the AppleScript website.
And you can see the URL for that there.
So what is GUI scripting?
It's an object model of the current state
of the UI at this particular instance,
instant.
You can access the things that you
can see on the screen through a
containment hierarchy of objects.
Every process on a machine
is now also a UI element.
In addition to being a UI element,
each process is a container
for other UI elements.
Every process contains
one or more UI elements,
usually one menu bar,
and one or more windows.
And then containment for
UI elements is recursive.
Inside the windows, there's buttons,
sliders, all sorts of things.
And you can get all of these
by walking down the tree to the
object that you're interested in.
Every UI element has a set of attributes.
Buttons have titles.
Various UI elements might
be enabled or disabled.
You can get at these
attributes as a collection,
as elements of the UI element itself.
Certain ones that are
particularly useful,
we've called them out and given
them property names so that
you can get at them directly.
One less step in your
hierarchy to get at those.
Each UI element also contains
a collection of actions.
Those are the things that
that UI element can do.
So buttons can be pressed,
sliders can be slid,
and an individual UI element
will tell you these are the
actions that I think I can do.
And if you want to do
one of those things,
there's a perform verb,
and you apply the perform
verb to the action object,
and the action applies
itself to its container,
which is a UI element.
So what can you do with GUI scripting?
You can access the attributes
and actions of all the standard
controls on your screen.
So you can find out how big a button is,
where it is on the screen,
whether a menu item is
enabled or disabled.
You can get at all of that information.
And you can use this information to
test the user interface of your program,
whether your application
is scriptable or not.
You don't need other kinds
of scripting to do this.
And this allows you to control
the behavior of otherwise
unscriptable applications.
Whoever would do that.
What it can't do.
GUI scripting can't get at
any non-standard controls.
If your application has a lot of
GUI widgets on the screen that
you designed and built yourself,
we probably won't know anything about
them and we won't be able to get at them.
They'll just be dead spots on
the screen that we can't touch.
The Accessibility API does have
some features that allow you to take
your non-standard controls and make
them behave enough like standard
controls that the Accessibility
API can see them and work with them.
I would strongly suggest you do
that if you depend heavily on
custom controls and not just for
GUI scripting but for accessibility.
We bought into accessibility,
you guys should too,
and the way you do that is to take
your custom controls and make them
behave in a little less custom fashion.
Another thing that you can't do with
GUI scripting is you cannot directly test
the object model of your application.
Everything comes in
through the user interface.
You're actually clicking
buttons and sliding sliders.
So there'll be parts of your code that
don't get touched coming in this way.
It's also true that there'll be parts
of your code that do get touched
coming in this way that don't normally
through object model scripting.
Object model scripting usually
completely bypasses the view
and the controller layer.
And goes straight to the model objects.
If you use GUI scripting,
you'll invoke both the view
and the controller before
reaching the model objects.
So it gives you more testing
in some parts of your program,
less testing in others.
And the last thing,
most important message,
the reason I'm here is to tell you that
this does not replace real object model
scriptability in your application.
This is not your ticket
to blow off scripting.
This is at best a stopgap,
and we'll get to some of the reasons why.
So how do I use it?
First thing you have to do is you
have to turn on the accessibility API,
which is off by default in Panther,
and it is not scriptable to turn it on.
So somebody's going to have to
turn on the accessibility API by
hand before they can use this.
Next thing you've got to do
is identify which UI element
it is you want to act on.
And this can be easy or it can be hard,
depending upon how complex the screen
is and how deep the hierarchy goes.
Then you want to identify
what action it is you want to
perform on that UI element.
And then, last thing,
perform the action on the element.
So if you need to enable
the accessibility API,
you should launch the system preferences,
select the universal access pane,
and down at the bottom,
second checkbox from the bottom is
enable access for assistive devices.
That's the one you need to turn on
or none of this is going to work.
To find the UI element
that you want to work on,
there's three choices of how to do that.
You can write an AppleScript that
digs its way through the hierarchy
layer by layer until you find
what it is you're looking for.
This can be hard because there's things
on the screen that you can't see.
Groups might exist and the thing
you're going after is inside the group.
Unless you probe what's
inside each group,
it's going to be hard for you to find it.
There's a couple of tools that
make this a little easier.
One comes from Apple.
It's called the UI element inspector.
And you can download that
from the AppleScript GUI site.
There's another one from the
folks at Prefab called UI browser.
They're both very good at finding things.
The one thing that UI browser can
do that UI element inspector can't
is it can actually spit out some
AppleScript code for you so you
don't have to write it yourself.
Then you want to identify what
action it is you're going to perform.
That's one step down in the hierarchy.
So if you've written a script to find
the element that you're interested in,
then you just ask that element,
tell me what your supported actions are.
In the UI element
inspector and UI browser,
if you're pointing at that UI element,
the actions will be listed
right there for you.
And again,
the UI browser can just spit out the code
you need to perform one of those actions.
Then you want to apply the action,
and you do that by applying the
perform verb to the action object.
And you do that the same way whether
you were using scripts or the
UI element inspector to find it.
And again,
the UI browser does it for you.
The accessibility API and
GUI scripting support keystrokes.
It's always better to set the
value of a text object rather
than to send it keystrokes.
You're going to get the results you're
looking for with less hassle that way.
But there are some times when
you have to send keystrokes,
particularly if you're
typing into a field that's
actually non-standard control.
You can still get data into
it by sending keystrokes.
Keystrokes are always directed
to the object that has the focus.
And if you want to change
the focus in AppleScript,
activate, set frontmost, click,
and select are all things that
can change the focus for you.
And you'll have to experiment to see
what you need in your situation to
get the focus where it needs to be.
The keystroke verb takes
Mac Roman characters and turns
them back into virtual key codes.
This works pretty well
for the English language.
It does not work pretty
well for other languages.
We know that's a problem.
We're working on it.
The accessibility API group has
the same problem that I have,
and we're trying to figure out a
more robust way of handling this.
But for what you've got now,
it works well in English,
not so well in other languages.
To get around that,
to give you an escape hatch,
we also have a key code verb where you
can send your own raw virtual key codes.
Finding out which one to send is hard,
but once you find out which one it is,
you can send it.
And now I'm going to
show you how to do this.
[Transcript missing]
Since UI elements is off by default,
it's a good idea to test
to see if it's on first.
The number one source of calls and emails
about this from the people that have
been working with it so far is that it's
been off when they've tried to use it.
So I put a test for that
in each of these scripts,
and if it's not on, I'm going to
I take that there is enough
scriptability in the system
preferences to take you right to the
point where you want to turn it on.
And so we're going to do that.
And this is going to
ask me for a password.
And that was it.
So now, since we've checked Enable
Access for Assistive Devices,
the accessibility API is on and
GUI scripting will be able to do its bit.
Okay.
Now,
sometimes I work in a lab and the other
people that work in the lab like to take
the dock and stick it someplace else.
I like it on the bottom.
There's a menu item that
will move it for me,
but that thing itself is not scriptable,
but we can get at it with GUI scripting.
You notice that I click the menu,
then I click the menu item within that,
and then I click a hierarchical
menu item within that.
GUI scripting is very deliberative.
You frequently have to traverse the
path to something before you can use it.
The edit menu is particularly sticky
in this fashion because most of
the things in the edit menu are
disabled until a selection is made.
So you frequently have to step
through all the intervening
steps to get to your item.
You can use the menu item
if it's in the menu bar.
And it moved the dock.
We did this in the first place
because we had a customer that had a
dialog that was blocking a workflow.
and he just needed to
dismiss that dialogue.
So one of the things that you're
likely to want to do pretty soon at
the beginning is dismiss a dialogue.
And again,
we make our same check at the beginning
to make sure everything is on.
Okay,
because of the way that text edit works,
I have to send a keystroke in order
to get the document to be dirty.
And so what I'm going to do is
create a text edit document,
put some text in it,
try to quit the application,
and it will come up and say,
I have stuff to save.
And then we'll use GUI scripting
to dismiss that dialogue.
I'm using that script editor because
I don't have text edit running already.
Excuse me while I go out
to the finder and get my
applications and launch TextEdit.
This might work a little
bit better this time.
There.
Put some text in there.
Send a keystroke.
OK, I'm sorry.
It went too fast.
TextEdit did close and quit without
you guys getting to see the dialogue.
I'm sorry about that.
We might try that again,
but we'll go on to the third one instead.
And here's a script that I've
written that sets a preference.
In this particular instance, the sound.
And it just toggles the sound
between two different values,
but it shows how a slider
can be manipulated.
It shows how a preference that's not
otherwise scriptable can be accessed.
Yes.
Okay.
I don't hear a beep.
Is that because the sound from
the demo machine isn't on?
Is that true?
Okay.
All right, now we should hear it
change and be louder.
And now it changes again and it's softer.
Okay.
[Transcript missing]
Just for fun,
let's see if we can get TextEdit to
work the way we thought it would.
Quit the script editor.
Relaunch the script.
We'll try this one more time just
to see if we can get it to work.
Sorry.
It happens too quick.
And I seem to have an error as well.
But that's GUI scripting.
You can use it to test your application.
We expect that this is not going
to be a good end-user solution.
Testers that work for you and you
pay them to run the same tests over
and over again and change the tests
every time you change the code,
they'll put up with this.
But end-users are not going to take
this as a solution for their problems.
So we'd like to encourage you
to learn about GUI scripting,
use it for your own purposes
internally as a test tool,
but for your end-users,
you should provide them
with object model scripting.
And now, if we can go back to the slides.
I'd like to introduce Doug Simons
from Eggplant Software,
or from Redstone Software,
who's going to talk
to you about Eggplant,
a much more professional tool
for testing your applications.
Hi, it's good to see you all here.
There's a lot of people.
I'm Doug Simons with Redstone Software,
and we're going to tell
you about Eggplant,
which, as you've heard,
is our software test automation tool.
So to begin with, why would you test?
I'm sure that all of you
have a lot of reasons,
or you wouldn't all be
here at this session.
But here's a few ideas that I had.
The Mac OS environment is
about quality software.
Mac OS users expect a good
experience with your software.
If you deliver crummy software
that doesn't work well,
you're not going to have a
good experience in the market.
Clearly also,
there are some cost advantages to you.
If your software works well,
you're going to have less costs for
support calls and your support personnel
can spend time answering questions
about your program's functionality
rather than fighting fires with bugs.
So the bottom line,
I think this equation speaks for itself.
Better software means happier customers.
And if your customers are happy,
then chances are you're happy too.
So why don't people test?
Well, of course, we all do test.
And developers,
when we add a new feature to a product,
we're going to try it out
and make sure that it works.
A lot of development organizations
have a big emphasis on unit and
functional tests at a lower level.
But testing is a complex process.
If you've added a new
feature to an application,
chances are it works well on its own,
but maybe it's going to have some
difficulty interacting with other
features of your application
that have been there already.
So those kinds of interactions,
both within your program
and with other programs,
are important to test as well.
So you might want to go hire some
people to do this testing for you.
And that's great, but of course,
it's a costly thing to hire people.
The process of testing is
not the most fun always.
It's kind of a repetitive
and mind-numbing task often.
And you might rather have
those intelligent people doing
something more interesting.
So you might want to invest in
some test automation software to
free up some of your tester's time,
make them more productive.
Unfortunately,
a lot of the software solutions
that are out there have been
traditionally hard to learn and use.
There's a steep learning curve involved.
And so it can be difficult to get
going and really make use of those.
Let's look at a few
different testing approaches.
First of all, obviously,
is manual testing.
Almost everyone does a certain
amount of manual testing.
And this is good,
but it can be very labor intensive.
And besides that,
people have a tendency to
be a little inconsistent.
So, if you have a lot of manual testing,
you might want to be careful
with your manual testing.
You might want to be careful
And that's a concern.
Even if you've written up test scripts
that your testers are following to step
your software through various processes,
different testers are likely
to follow those instructions
in slightly different ways.
And if you don't have instructions,
then who knows what sort of results
you'll get from one test run to the next.
So one obvious solution is
to automate that process.
And in the past,
sometimes that's been done
through hardware-based solutions.
Apple Computer at one time had
a hardware testing product,
and our own parent company, Gresham,
had a hardware-based
testing solution also.
And hardware testing
works great when it works.
And the problem is that it can be
very inflexible and platform-specific.
If the system being tested changes in
some way or you're working with different
hardware that you're connecting to,
it can be rather fragile
sometimes and prone to problems.
So obviously a more flexible
solution would be to use software.
And software solutions can be great,
but as I mentioned before,
they're often hard to learn and also
require integration most often into
the software that's being tested.
So that's an additional barrier
to implementing and using those.
We found in talking to people that quite
often the expensive software solutions
the companies invested in ended up
collecting dust in a corner as shelfware.
So, as I said,
our parent company at one time had a
hardware testing product and about a
year and a half ago we started looking
at what other alternatives might exist.
We abandoned the hardware product,
which was PC-based,
and investigated what it was going to
take to come up with a better solution.
So I'd like to share with you some
of the design principles and goals
that went into creating Eggplant.
First of all, we wanted it to be easy
to learn and easy to use.
Because we really didn't want to
create another piece of shelfware.
We wanted people to use our software
and get some benefit from it.
We also would like it to
be powerful and elegant.
Well,
those are great marketing buzzwords,
but what we mean is that we
wanted to focus on the essential
functionality that testers needed.
and we also wanted it to be flexible
so it could be integrated into
an overall testing environment.
We also wanted to create
Eggplant to be independent.
We wanted to minimize the
amount of integration required.
In fact,
no integration required with your
software so that you don't have
to know ahead of time what you're
going to be using to test with,
and we can test with any
software that's out there.
We also thought it was
important to be non-intrusive,
to have a minimal impact on the
performance and behavior of the
system where your software is running.
Cross-platform is another
important goal because software
exists in a multi-platform world.
Even if you're creating
software for Mac OS X only,
chances are that your program
these days is going to be working
with files from other systems,
importing or exporting,
and you need to be able to
have some way to work with a
cross-platform testing environment.
And finally,
we felt it was very important to
test from the user perspective.
As we said,
there are a lot of functional and
low-level unit-type tests available,
but the bottom line is you
want to create software that
is going to satisfy your users.
If you have a wonderful computing
engine that does wonderful calculations,
but the user interface is
crummy or simply doesn't work,
your users are not going to
get any value out of that.
So how does Eggplant work?
Well, first of all,
we provide remote control
of another computer.
How many of you have heard of
or used a product called VNC?
and quite a few.
So, VNC is an open source project
that's been out there for a number
of years that allows one computer
to remotely control another.
It does this by displaying the screen
of the other computer and allowing you
to control the keyboard and the mouse.
So, Eggplant leverages this technology.
We've built a VNC client into
Eggplant that allows us to talk
to any VNC server out there.
And as an open source project,
VNC is available for essentially
any platform that you wish to test.
So, we're able to connect not
only to Mac OS X but Mac OS 9,
Unix, Linux,
Solaris and any flavor of Windows.
Then we added in scripting.
We have a powerful scripting
language that allows you to automate
any task on any of those systems.
So the bottom line is that
Eggplant can drive any software
on any system through the user
interface just like a user would.
So I'd like to invite my colleague
Jonathan Gillaspie up now to give you
a quick demo of how Eggplant works.
Hi there.
Thanks, Doug.
So for our first demonstration,
what I'd really like to show you
guys is exactly how Eggplant works.
[Transcript missing]
I'm going to go ahead and make
this display a little smaller
so we can go ahead and see it
easily over on this machine.
Okay.
So there we go.
That's our remote machine
that we're going to test.
Now to show you how to go about
testing one of your applications,
we needed an application to test.
So we've gone ahead and created
a really simple application.
This application is so simple,
we decided to name it Very Simple.
So although VerySimple's very simple,
I want to go ahead and
show you what it does do.
So when you double-click
and launch this application,
it brings up a login panel.
And you go ahead and
type in your login name.
In this case,
it's Fred with the password of Wilma.
And then VerySimple goes ahead and
brings up a list of some pictures,
some interesting pictures.
So we'll go ahead and select
a picture from the list and
click the preview button.
And as soon as it does that,
it launches that image up
in the preview application.
And that's about all
that VerySimple does.
It's just a real simple application to
show you something we might want to test.
So I'm going to go ahead and quit out
of preview and quit out of VerySimple.
So now that you know
what very simple that is,
I want to go ahead and build
a test to make sure that our
application works correctly.
I do that by creating
an eggplant test suite.
A test suite is simply a collection
of all of the resources that
you need to test an application.
You can have multiple
scripts within a suite,
so we'll go ahead and create
the first one of those now.
Just like that.
Right.
From this point,
we could actually just start scripting
right here in our script window
using Eggplant's scripting language,
SenseTalk.
But instead,
I'd like to use Eggplant's script
generation capabilities to show
you just how easy that can be.
So we go into what we call capture mode.
You'll notice that in capture mode,
we're no longer interacting with
the remote computer directly.
But instead,
we have a selection rectangle here,
which we can use to identify
elements of the remote screen
that we want to deal with.
So in this case,
we're going to highlight in on the
very simple icon and tell Eggplant
that we'd like to double-click on it by
choosing double-click from the toolbar.
Eggplant brings up a save dialog,
and we give it a name for
our image and click save.
When we click save, three things happen.
The first is Eggplant saves
that image in our very simple --
in our very simple test suite.
The second thing it does is it actually
generates that command into our script.
Double click on the very simple icon.
and the third thing that it does
is actually execute that command
against the remote machine.
When it does that,
Eggplant goes and searches through the
remote screen until it finds the very
simple icon and double clicks on it.
And you can see here it's gone ahead and
launched the very simple application.
The next thing we want
to do in our script,
of course,
is click in the name field so we
can enter our username and password.
We identify that field by the name label,
but of course we don't want
to click directly on the name.
We want to click to the right of it.
We do that by setting
Eggplant's image's hotspot.
You can set the hotspot anywhere
on or relative to the actual image.
So we'll set it right there
in the field and say click.
Again, Eggplant saves the image,
writes that into the script,
and you can see now that
the name field is selected.
Now we'll go ahead and
type the username in.
We have a type text command,
so we can type in Fred.
And you can also send special
characters like the tab key
to go to the password field.
And then we'll type in the password.
Now we'll go ahead and
click on the submit button.
To log in,
and up comes our list of pictures.
We're going to go ahead and
just pick an item from the list.
We'll go ahead and pick
the chess item again.
And click on that.
And finally,
we'll go click on the Preview button.
You'll notice these Aqua pulsing buttons,
like preview and the submit button,
are pulsing on the screen.
Since Eggplant works by finding
images on the remote screen,
we have a special color matching mode
that allows us to locate those images.
There we go.
It's messaged the preview
application and brought up our image.
We want to go ahead and make sure
that that image actually came
up on screen because that's what
Eggplant's all about is validating
the results of your application.
So we'll go ahead and use the
wait for command to do that.
The wait for command will wait up
to the maximum period of time for
the image to come up on the screen.
In this case, that'll be eight seconds.
As soon as Eggplant sees
that image up on the screen,
we know we've successfully
completed the test,
so we want to go ahead and quit out of
preview and quit out of very simple.
I'm going to use the type command feature
to send a command queue to preview,
and that quits out.
And then I want to quit
out of very simple,
and let's go ahead and do
that through the menus.
There we go.
So as you can see,
we've now created our very first
demonstration script that tests
our very simple application.
We have all our script commands here.
We have all the images that
Eggplant uses right over here.
So we can go ahead and run this script.
and watch Eggplant step through, log in,
highlight that,
see the image and quit out.
Thanks.
Anytime Eggplant runs a script,
it records the results over in
the results tab in our suite.
So we can click on the most
recent run of that script.
And you can see here that
Eggplant has stored not only
every action that it performed,
but it also identifies where on
the screen it found that image,
and it also identifies
at what time it occurred.
At this point, some of you are probably
wondering exactly what it
looks like if a script fails.
So we can cause a failure by
going in and getting rid of the
password so we can't log in.
And we'll go ahead and run that.
Sorry.
Eggplant fails here because
it can't continue forward
through the rest of the script.
So you can see over here in
our results tab that the last
run is highlighted in red.
And if we select that,
we see that Eggplant automatically
has taken a full screenshot of
what the screen looked like at
that point and has highlighted
the image that it was looking for.
By using this,
you can quickly see that we
weren't able to find the chess item
because the authentication failed.
So that's a pretty basic look at
the easy features of Eggplant.
So I'm going to pass it back to Doug now.
Thanks Jonathan.
So now you've seen something
about how eggplant works,
let's take a quick look at some of the
technologies that are behind this and
the benefits that those give to you.
First of all,
we have a powerful scripting
language called SenseTalk.
SenseTalk is a very easy to learn,
understandable language.
It's actually modeled after HyperTalk,
the language in HyperCard,
which probably a lot of
you have seen before.
We also have added a number of extensions
and SenseDoc is a very full-featured,
object-oriented language,
so it gives you the power that
you need to do whatever it is
that you need to get done there.
We also use VNC, as we mentioned before,
which stands for
Virtual Network Computing.
And VNC, as I said, is an open protocol,
an open source project that allows us
to see the screen of the other computer
and control the keyboard and the mouse.
This gives us separation from the
application and system that's under test.
As you saw in the demo,
we were testing not just
the very simple application,
but actually the interaction between
very simple and the preview application.
From our point of view,
there's really no difference.
All we know is that there's a screen
out there and we can interact with it.
This gives us a lot of flexibility,
and we not only test interactions among
different software on the same system,
but even across systems from
one computer to another.
And finally, of course,
this separation allows us to control
the system just like a user would.
We also use Cocoa.
I'm sure a lot of you are using Cocoa.
And we think this gives
us some advantages.
Obviously, it gives us the clean,
intuitive Aqua interface.
But also, more importantly,
it allows us to be responsive
to our customers' needs.
We use the
XP Extreme programming approach,
and we find it's very important
to be able to be responsive to
the requests of our customers.
Let's take a look at Eggplant as a tool.
We see Eggplant as just one component
of your overall development process.
We know that there are a lot of other
tools out there that you use and that
you need to be able to integrate with.
So, Eggplant is able to interact
with other tools that can be
integrated into your build process.
Eggplant script can be called
from the command line or an
entire suite actually of scripts,
as you'll see shortly.
And we also are able to integrate with
any reporting tools you might have.
All of the files in an Eggplant
suite are standard files.
The images we capture
are saved as TIFF images.
And all of our report logs that
we generate are in plain text
files that you can load into a
spreadsheet or access with another
reporting tool that you might have.
We're also able to interact
with Unix command line tools.
As I said, we can be called from the
command line and we can also
call other command line tools.
And the same with AppleScript.
Now here's an interesting point.
I don't know if any of you,
how many of you are aware of
the Apple compatibility labs.
Have any of you used those?
Not too many hands going up.
Apple has this great facility.
They've got a number
of different computers,
dozens really,
of all different makes and models, well,
all Macintoshes, and running various
versions of the Mac OS.
And these are available to developers
if you go into their labs in Cupertino,
you can bring your software in and
test it out to make sure that it
works on all the different platforms.
Unfortunately,
it requires a trip to Cupertino
to do that up until now.
We've been working closely with Apple to
ensure that it's possible for eggplant
users to access the labs remotely from
the convenience of your own office.
And, uh, okay.
We thought you might appreciate that.
So, anyway,
I'd like to bring Jonathan back
up for another demo of some of
Eggplant's more advanced features.
Thanks again, Doug.
Okay.
So on our previous example,
we saw some of the basic
features of eggplant,
but now I'd like to take this
opportunity to show you some
of the more advanced features.
So I've gone ahead and built off of
the demo that I did just a moment
ago and created another test suite,
which I call not so very simple.
You'll see that
Not So Very Simple actually
has two scripts now.
Let's go ahead and look
at the login script.
I've actually gone ahead and just
broken out the functionality that
deals with having the user log in.
As you can see in here,
you can pass parameters.
Can you guys see that okay?
As you can see,
you can pass in parameters.
In this case,
we pass in the name and the password
into this script and go through
the process of validating the user.
So let's go ahead and look at
our main controller script,
which is view images.
You can see we've added quite a
few little extensions in here.
The first example is we've created a
couple of lists here that we can use
to iterate over all of the various
logins that we want to validate.
And that's what this
repeat loop here is for.
It goes through the basic test
we've already implemented,
but now we want to try it
with a whole variety of cases.
Here's the login line.
You can see where we're passing
the parameters to the login
script I just showed you.
and then we go forward through
the rest of the script.
You might also notice that that
is within a try-catch loop.
Whenever Eggplant detects an error,
has a problem,
it raises a typical exception,
which many of you may be familiar with.
And you have a choice.
You can either choose to let that
exception raise up to the top,
and Eggplant will
report that as an error,
or you can catch it and
try to resolve that here.
In the first example I gave,
we had a problem when we tried to
log in and the password was invalid.
What I've done here is set a catch,
which will catch and see if the error was
because the no password panel came up.
And if so, we go ahead and dismiss the
password panel and continue
iterating through the lists.
We go ahead and log that
that password's not valid,
but we'll gracefully continue so
that we try all of the examples.
So let's go ahead and bring up our
connection again and try running
our more sophisticated script.
So here you can see it
doing the same thing.
I have animation turned on so you
can see as it's calling the-- oops.
Well, there you see an example of
where Eggplant doesn't work.
Let me go ahead and quit
out and run that again.
There we go.
This time I decided to try something
new that maybe you all hadn't seen,
so I brought up a picture of a G5
because I thought that would be fun.
And actually, I think it blew through
it while I was talking,
but you might have noticed--
I'll run it again real quickly.
It actually brought up on
the second login there,
that's actually an invalid login.
[Transcript missing]
Okay.
One final feature that
I'd like to show you guys,
and Doug alluded to it a second ago,
we have a nice little
Schedules tab in our suite.
The Schedules tab is useful
for building up a batch of
scripts that you'd like to run.
So you can drag some scripts
in there just like that.
The Schedules tab has some nice features.
You can make scripts dependent
on the successful completion
of a previous script.
You can enable and disable which
scripts you'd like to see running
at a current point in time.
And you can set up a repeat
loop so that you can repeat over
that batch a number of times.
Another neat feature that the
Schedules tab has here is we can
actually choose which computer we'd
like to connect to to run that.
So I'm going to pick these two computers.
and we'll start running.
These computers are actually located
downstairs in one of the lounges.
It's actually the
ADC compatibility lounge that
they've brought to this facility.
But they could just as easily be any
computer -- computers anywhere on
the Internet that were accessible.
So you can see it running through.
There, that log in's not valid.
And it cleans it up.
So I'd like to point out that although
what we're doing here is testing the
same script on two different machines,
you could just as easily
switch your connection in the
middle of a single script.
And in this way,
you could test scripting-- you could
test something that runs at multiple
points on different machines.
and hopefully this has given you a good
example of how you might be able to use
Eggplant to help test your applications.
Thanks again, Jonathan.
So I have just a couple more slides here.
As you saw, Eggplant is very useful
for testing your software.
But because we are automating
a process on a remote system,
it doesn't have to necessarily
just be used for testing software.
It could be used for some
other things as well.
And here's a few ideas that we've
thought of and that some of our
customers are playing around with.
One is documentation.
We know that you all like
to document your software.
But of course,
chances are you've got a lot of
screenshots then in your documentation.
And as your software evolves,
you're going to need to replace those
screenshots with up-to-date images.
Using Eggplant,
you could create a script to
walk through your application.
And at the appropriate point where
you want to capture a screenshot,
you can tell Eggplant to do that.
We can capture either the full
screen or any region of the
screen that you want to capture.
We think it could also
be useful in training.
Particularly,
we're working on a feature right now
that should be out in the next version
of Eggplant to allow you to create
a QuickTime movie of any part of
your script as it's walking through.
This could be great for creating a
demonstration movie of your software
or a variety of other purposes.
And last of all, of course,
system administration
is kind of a natural.
If you've got an Eggplant machine
that can connect to any number of
different systems across your network,
it could be very useful.
It could be very useful for scripting and
automating any tasks on those machines.
So finally,
I thought that John Comiskey was
going to have a slide in there at the
end with a quote from Matt Newberg.
I guess that came out on his
final presentation there.
But we thought, gee,
maybe we should put in a
quote from Matt Newberg,
too.
So here you go.
Here's some good advice
from Matt Newberg,
who saw Eggplant here at Macworld
in January and was rather
enamored with what he saw.
So now I'd like to invite Godfrey
back up to do the wrap up.
Thank you very much, John.
So, in summary, what have we got?
You know, testing is very important.
We know it's very
important to all of you.
This is just, you know, the beginnings of
Mac OS X automated testing.
The Redstone product is excellent,
is in use by quite a large
number of our developers already.
AppleScript's GUI scripting
capability gives you a certain
level of functional testing,
and it's limited in scope.
We understand that.
We know we need to do more there.
But I'm sure that lots of people
can create point tests for
functional testing using it,
and logging output, logging errors,
and all kinds of other things.
Eggplant user-centric, scriptable,
cross-platform,
broad scope of capabilities.
We've only shown a little bit of it here,
and they have lots more
things in store for it.
Where to learn more.
The AppleScript GUI scripting
is the UI element inspector.
These are the URLs to
get to these components,
the UI browser, and of course,
just go to the developer site
and search for accessibility.
You'll get reference to
a lot of documentation.
Eggplant by Redstone Software.
This is their company address
and contact information.
They have Eggplant
CDs available here at WWDC.
They were giving them out at
their booth during the course
of the conference downstairs.
If anybody has not received one,
please meet with the
gentleman from Redstone.
They'll be here after this
session and out in the halls,
and they'll be able to
get some more for you.
And also the access to our ADC test labs.
If you have interest in
more automated testing,
I really request that
you come contact me.
My email address is right there.
We're looking for your input,
what fits your needs,
what would you like to see.
We're looking for where we
can improve in this direction.
And of course,
Redstone Software and Jim Armstrong,
who will be up in our Q&A panel.
He's their sales engineer and can answer
a lot of your questions about access and
finding information about their products.
And we're very close
to the end of the show,
but we thought we'd give you
a couple of things to go to,
both at the same time this afternoon,
unfortunately.
But number one,
how to write a modern Carbon app,
take advantage of the latest
techniques and concepts for
Mac OS X Carbon applications,
and a feedback forum for the
Apple Developer Connection.
You can give us feedback
about the conference,
about all the services we
provide through the year.